[[Nick Abson]]

CATEGORIES: 1946 births, Living people, British documentary filmmakers, British music video directors, British television directors

Nicholas Abson (22 December 1946), born Michael Nicholas Drinan in
England to parents Pamela Mileece Drinan (n√©e
l'Anson) and Michael Patrick Drinan. After emigrating to Canada in
1956, Abson was adopted by his then step-father and re-christened
Nicholas Michael Abson.
In 1961, Abson moved to New York City where he attended Brooklyn
Technical High School. He then went on to attend college at CUNY Manhattan and Richmond Colleges.
In 1978, his daughter Mileece was born, to become a recording artist
and leading composer of advanced music followed by his son Miles and
then Lancelot.

Work

Fuel Cell Industry

In 1991, Abson started a series for the BBC centering on a Belgian
fuel cell company, Elenco. After becoming engrossed with the
technology, he rebuilt Elenco when it entered administration from 2
employees to 200 and re-branded it as ZeTek Plc.  ZeTek would go on to
become Europe's largest fuel cell company pioneering London Taxi and a second generation fuel cell designed for automated production, ending the hand production previously required.    He resurrected
the company as Cenergie Plc and provided shares for all but a few of
the 500 ZeTek shareholders. Following a series of cyber and other
commercially driven attacks, Abson resigned.
Abson continues work on fuel-cell development by publishing papers and
working pro-bono for a number of organisations and universities.
Citing his experiences with Cenergie, he now writes and campaigns for
greater scrutiny of UK money-laundering activities and industrial
espionage. His first political philosophy, titled "Factions and
Pyramids" is set to be released in 2012.

=Fuel Cell Firsts=

=Interviews and Clips on Fuel Cells=

CNN Interviews Nick Abson on the Hydrogen Fuel Cells As The Future Of Energy Production - 

BBC - Tomorrows World Fuel Cell Taxi Feature - 

Channel 5 News Reports On The Hydrogen Car - 

The first hydrogen fuel cell powered London taxi - 

Nick Abson on his collaboration with The University of Wolverhampton -


Music

In 1970, Abson returned to Britain and launched Freerange Sound
Studios using funds earned from documentaries "The Stonemen" and "The
Earthmovers", which document St. Paul Cathedral's masons and the
reclamation of Britain's largest coal tip (respectively).
Abson went on to make many music concert films during the 1970s,
starting with Dr. Feelgood's's "Going Back Home" and ending with the
Ramones' "New Year's Concert". He pioneered music videos with artists
such as Stevie Wonder, Kate Bush, The Damned, Queen and Lena Lovitch
while Covent Garden's Freerange recorded Gary Numan, The Sex Pistols,
Patti Smith and The Slits, supporting musicians by subsidizing them
with film profits.
In 1979, he closed Freerange to pursue careers outside of the music
industry after his longtime business partner, Neville Wills (age 36)
died.

=Music Videos=

=Concert Films=

Television career

Abson's strong political and social interests lead him to television
with current affairs programs such as "Left, Right and Centre",
"Public Eye" and  "The World This Week". He later went on to direct
light entertainment programs like "Krypton Factor", "Countdown,
"Catchphrase" and "Fraggle Rock". His interest in science led to
series such as "Where's There's Life", "Discovery", "Fun and Games",
"The Haley Comet Show" and "Real World". Between 1980 and 1990, he
directed more than 2,000 network shows.

=Television Programs=

=Documentaries=




